## AWS Learning

Github URL: https://github.com/stevekinney/aws-v2

## S3
- S3 accouny you have buckets
- You can put objects in your buckets
- You can read from your buckets
- You can HOST web pages out of your bucket
- Infinetly scalabale
- MAX_FILE_SZIE can be 5 TB
- 99.9 % Availabiltity and Durability
- S3 is effectively a KEY/VALUE store
- Uploading S3 is free
- Charge to for Storage


## Features
- Lifecycle Management
- Versioning
- Encryption
- Security

## Data Consistency Model   
- Putting new Objects into S3 is immediately. You will get status 200 response.
- Updating/Removing Objects is eventually consistent. 
- File stored in S3 doen't mean it is stored in one bucket it could be stored into
  multiple buckets and each bucket can be into multiple regions. .e US-East, US-West.


## S3 Policies
- Users can have policies
- Resources can have policies
- We can define policies
  - Read from bucket
  - Disallow writing/delete from bucket

- When defining policies it is a common principle for JSON
 - "Principal" -> Who?
 - "Effect"    -> Either "Allow" || "Deny"?
 - "Action"    -> What shoiuld they be able to do?
 - "Resource"  -> What shoiuld they be able to do it?


 ## TIL
 - Create a Domain from Route53
 - Create a S3 Bucket 
   - Set bucket policy using `Policy generator` via permission.
 - Navigate to S3 Bucket under `Properties` tab
    - Navigate to `Static website hosting` and host file by providing `index.html` or optional `error.html`.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Id": "Policy1694085251375",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1694085248900",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::khizerlearnaws/*"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Static Website Hosting
-URL: http://khizerlearnaws.s3-website.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/


## Deploy App with AWS CLI
- You need to install AWS CLI (Which i am not doing it)
- Adding commands for AWS CLI
  - aws s3 ls s3://<bucket-name> e.gs 
  
  - S3 URL: s3://khizerlearnaws/index.html
  - URL Access: https://khizerlearnaws.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/index.html

## Deploy Frontend build to AWS using CLI
 - create build of project (npm run build)
 - aws s3 cp build s3://khizerlearnaws/index.html --recursive

 ## Configure Route53 & Routing
- Fix URL issues 

## Create DNS Record Entry
- Navigate to Route53 Dashboard
- Domains -> Registered Domains
- Click on Registered Domain (Disable: `Auto Renew`)
- Goto Manage DBS -> Goto Hosted Zones => Click on Domain Name -> "View Edit Details" 
- Create Quick record
  - Record Type -> "A-Routes traffic to an IPv4 address and so..."
  - Record Traffic to:
    - Choose Endpoint -> "Alias to S3 Website Endpoint"
    - Choose Region -> "<HOSTED_REGION>"
    - Enter S3 Endpoint -> "Select HOSTED website"

  **Note:** DNS takes some time to update to pleas wait till DNS entry is updated
  all servers.


  ## Manage SSL via Certificate Manager
  - Navigate to Certificate Manager 
  - Click on "Request Certificate" button
  - "Request a public certificate"  -> click "Next"
  - Enter Domain Name for your domain
  - Select Validation Method:
      - DNS Validation (recommented) 
      - Email Validation
  - Click on Request button.
  - You can edit request -> check Domains -> Status if(succeed) OK 
   otherwise "Creat records in Route 53". (Learn from hardway by steve kinny :P)
  - Create DNS records in Amazon Route 53.

  ## Fix URL Routing 
  - Incase you host applicaiton and have client side routing
    and if you navigate to any route from application it works
    as soon you navigate to route and try to achieve same behaviour
    from page referesh that it should work as expected it will fail.

    **Reason:**
    This is because s3 bucket looks for key/value pairs and it doesn't 
    have that value corresponding route path inorder to fix that thing 
    and let client application to handle which path it should be redirected
    we need to inform s3 bucket when ever there is error just let application
    to decide what path to go and incase of error redirect to application.
    WARNING: To me it make always sense that S3 will never fails as it will say `200` 
    status because it will be successful.

  #### How to fix Routing Navigation:

  **Solution-1**
  - Create a Domain from `Route53`
  - Navigate to S3 Bucket under `Properties` tab
      - Navigate to `Static website hosting` and host file by providing `index.html` or optional `error.html`.
      - Under Optional field -> inside error.html -> write `index.html` which s3 will redirect back to index.html
        in case of error.
  
  ## How to make "www".<Register_DOMAIN>.com to work
  - Previously it will work for your <Register_DOMAIN>.com not for www.<Register_DOMAIN>.com
  so inorder to make it work for "www" you have to put extra work.
  - Create a New Bucket.
 - Navigate to S3 Bucket under `Properties` tab
 - Navigat to `Static website hosting` 
  - Static website hosting -> enabled
  - Hosting Type -> "Redirect requests for an object"
  - Host Name -> <PROVIDE_ORIGINAL_BUCKET_NAME> for redirect to same bucket.
 - Save 
 - Navigate to `Static website hosting` under permession tab and see URL
   having "www.<Register_DOMAIN>.com" and this should work as before but 
   now with "www". IMPORTANT!! -> It works for Redirect requests not user input.

 - Once it is fixed we need to do the same thing to enter in DNS record entry 
   to allow "www". via url input 
 - Repeat the Process "Create DNS Record Entry" for "www."


 ## Cloudfront

 - Setup Cloudfront distribution
 - Point our static website on S3
 - Add our domain names
 - Gzipping our assets 

## Amazon Cloudfront
- Create a cloudfront distribution
- Origin domain -> Copy URL from bucket -> Properties -> Static website hosting -> Copy URL
- Paste in Origin Domain (Note: Select URL from DDN list will not work but will have workaround)
- Viewer protocol policy
  - Select -> Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
- Alternate domain name (CNAME)
  -  domain name
  -  domain name with "www"
- Custom SSL (select from DDN list) as you have already before see step " Manage SSL via Certificate Manager"
- Default root object -> `/index.html`
- Create distribution


For Both (<REGISTERED_DOMAIN> and <www.REGISTERED_DOMAIN>)

## Change from Route53 -> to Cloudfront
- Register Domains -> Manage DNS -> View Details
- Select Domain ->  Edit Record -> Route Traffic to -> "Alias to Cloudfront distribution"
- Choose <xyz.cloudfront.net> distribution
- Routing Policy -> "Simple routing"


## Benefits of Cloudfront
- Cloudfront will cache our assets in S3 which will reduce the number of request avoids 
  (Pay per request from S3 bucket) now it won't be because will will be getting results 
  from cloudfront.
- It access nearest Edge node -> Edge node -> Amazon -> private cables which is more
  faster and secure because we are dealing with amazon services.

  How cloudfront checks resources -> Egde Nodes -> Region Edge Caches -> No -> Virginia

## Notes:
- Cloudfront by default ignores the request headers or any specific headers on which your
  application depends then you need to SPECIFICALLY needs to allow them for cloudfront to 
  allow header in Request.

- Once you have done "Change from Route53 -> to Cloudfront" step you can navigate 
 cloudfront distribution
- Copy Distribution -> validates the Cloudfront distribution works for applicaiton
  - Validates both Domains work
  - Validates SSL
  - Validates Cloudfront distribution URL works


## New features OAI (Origin Access Identity)
 - Only allow cloudfront to access s3 buckets
   - Restrict only cloudfront to read/write to buckets.

#### How to to apply cloudfront infront of S3 bucket:
- Navigate a cloudfront distribution
- Select Origin domain from DDN
- Navigate to to s3 bucket access -> restrict access to cloudfront only
- Create new OAI button
- Update bucket access policy
- Save changes.
- Navigate to S3 bucket -> Update policy -> append cloudfront OAI <Origin_Access_indentities> ID 
Note: Don'e confuse yourself (OAI ID with Cloudfront ID) we have sep page for `Security/OAI` to get ID.
- Cloudfront URL: https://d3v5cdzevseva8.cloudfront.net/

## Cloudfront Routing:

- Error pages for Distribution
 - Custom Error Pages based on HTTP Error codes e.g 404: Not Found, 403: Forbidden.
- Once Error pages are defined -> Response page path can be defined which can redirect
  to file once following error is encountered from cloudfront.


## Manage Caching
- Navigate to Cloudfront distribution
- Navigate to Behavior tab
- Select Default(*) behavior / Edit page
- Navigate to "Cache key and origin requests" => click on "Create cache policy"
- You can even create different cahcing policies for (files, images folders)

## Cache Invalidation
- Create invalidation rule
- Add all of different paths/ that you should forget about.
- This thing is pretty handy when CI Pipeline since AWS cloudfront caches for 24hrs
  so incase of multiple versions are deployed you can have cache invalidation policy
  whenever a FRESH deployment is deployed. So every customer get's Updated version
  but the ONE who acces first time will access it from all over to `Virginia` and 
  later users will get updated COPY from `nearest` cloudfront edge nodes.


## Create Polices
- Navigate to IAM
- Create Policies
- Select Policy via visual editor 
- Select "Cloudfront" from policy editor
- Select "CreateInvalidation" action 
- Add ARN -> Enter Distribution ID
 e.g 564908787568 -> <USER_ID>
 e.g arn:aws:cloudfront::564908787568:distribution/<DISTRIBUTION_NUMBER>

#### Add Addtional Permission
 - Select S3 service
    - Specific Actions for s3 bucket -> `PutObject`, `ListBucket` 

#### Resources
 - bucket -> select s3 bucket
 - object -> s3 bucket + * (provide access all things)

#### Review Policy
 - Provide poliy name e.g "DeployStaticAssets" -> This will be "Customer Managed" policy
 - Optional description
 - Since we created this policy from "Administrator" NOW we can create any USER whose sole job
   is to deplpy to this bucket with LIMITED access.

#### Create a new User e.g "BuildProcessUser" 
  - `Attach` to existing policies directly -> "DeployStaticAssets" select and applied 
  - Create user (Download csv for AccessKeyID and SecretAccessKey)

#### Integrate Github Actions
- Check [yml](https://github.com/stevekinney/aws-v2/blob/main/.github/workflows/main.yml) file
- Process are just automated with Github Actions


## Lambda Overview§